to be a professional athlete,
to be a successful professional athlete.
There's one activity you can't hide from practice.
Tell me about what a good practice looks like to you,
Gary.
Well,
I think importantly,
what?
Why,
you know,
why would we feel that preparation
and practice is so necessary to an
athlete or two cricketer going on to become
a really good running again?
You just have to look at the top in their fields to see what
they have done and to really get to understand
why they see practicing so
important to the success in in match play.
I think it's probably a number of reasons.
One is they just want to make sure that they feel
comfortable with their skills,
that they've prepared these skills enough that they can take them out
on to fuel the play and,
under intense pressure,
be able to execute on those skills
like I need to this practice.
Is Maura around the physical preparation
Well,
it's probably a bit of both,
but absolutely I think you're I think your
physical component Thio to the skill
that you are trying to master is,
um is crucial.
I mean,
it never goes away.
It's It's not like you can pretend that you don't
need to do it and still become a
player of the highest quality.
I'm I'm always really interested when I see a young
guy that's got a lot of skill and to see
how he improves with that skill,
the more effort in his preparation that he puts it,
It's not necessarily just about preparation.
It's how do we prepare?
I think that's very important,
you know?
What does it look like when you're going to earn it and you go practice?
And what are you doing in that practice that is really gonna
be off benefit are out in the middle?
I think you know,
certainly when I was playing,
which is some time ago and you were playing that
practice looked very much like your rather the Nets.
You had a net practice.
You faced some seaman's.
You face some spinach yet if you throw downs afterwards,
then a fielding session and and that was it as
practice.
His practice changed over over the years.
H.
I think it's changing,
that's for sure.
There's enough demand in the game now,
especially in the modern professional domestic
game especially.
There just are so many good players around now that your competitive
advantage is often the one that the guy that works a little
bit harder the God that understands the
importance off practicing and Heiken
master he's skill just a
little bit more than more than someone else.
So we certainly put a lot of emphasis.
Is coaches on the importance off practicing?
And it's not just about coming down
and having a having a hit for 20 minutes in a net
facing bowlers,
get out five or six times and then move on.
I think we've gone past that.
Now that you know,
if you've got three hours at a nettle,
what even if it's an honor half What are you doing
in that time?
That is gonna help you grow your skill that,
most importantly,
grow your skill under pressure because that's what you're facing
a Mexico.
So practice for me has become more about
what do you do in that period of time that's gonna help
you improve the skill.
There's a full package as well.
It's not only just hitting balls,
you need to be a good field of these days.
You need to be an athlete mentally,
you need to prepare as well.
So there's it's kind of a whole lot to
do that package.
But I really I get really irritated as a coach when
I see a player come down to a nit and
kind of just go through the motions a little bit,
we've,
you know,
the way that cricket is being practiced over the last
70 or 80 years.
We need to move on from that because I think
the demands of the game,
the professional game specifically requires us
to use that on a heart for that three
hours match,
better than what we have in the past.
That's what I think.
I want to test you a little bit when we have the longer versions
of the game,
whether it be a junior level,
what senior level elite level,
you're asking someone to that for a long period
of time.
345 hours.
You better for 14 hours in a test match.
But you say he has a 20 minute next session.
How do they prepare to bet for 14
hours off for four hours when all they're being given is a 20
minute net session and I do understand You can't
say bad for 14 hours because you need violins to go.
So how did they go about doing it?
You know,
I think notations not only just about
20 minutes have your pads on and then take your pads off if
you're a professional.
Vets one.
When I was a professional,
vets one comes down to the net.
He keeps his pads on for the entire time because
it's it's that 20 minute in it,
and then it's into a throat on station within
with another coach and work on a specific skill.
Then it beat might be out into the middle.
If you do get a middle way,
you can practice another skill there,
and you certainly master those skills every
time you come to the net in such a way
that you are saying,
You know,
I have hit 600 bulls here
today and that is part of my development
as a play.
You absolutely spot on the days
off a 20 minute net
against bowlers getting out six times in the
net.
What purpose does that have?
Or relevance is that have to you going out into a little situation
we're gonna get back to to the net practice.
I just want to go a little bit to the junior side of things and maybe
pick your brain on what you did.
Often you'll have a young cricketer 10 11
12 years of age,
just desperate to go,
never hit.
There's no one to have a hit with,
you know,
what can he do in order to hone
his skills as a cricketer himself?
So that's a good question On first of all is to find someone to throw
balls to you on.
I think if you could do that,
it just requires that one person.
If if you were on your own,
you know that I think in ways you can get quite innovative around
it.
If you're in the backyard or you can hit it's a tennis
ball against the wall and just work on your kind
of straight bat swing.
That might be a way it might be a young bowler
who doesn't necessarily need to bolt it better when you convert
against a wall,
so they're always that you can practice on your own.
I mean,
I used to I used to use a sock
that I used to hang from a tree and I just used to hit the hit
the ball in the sock and the swing.
The ball would come back and and I would just repeat the action.
For me,
the most important thing is that it's quite complicated the bed
stream,
although we try and keep it as natural as possible as coaches.
But as complicated as it is,
it requires repetition
is much repetition.
It's possible the great players in the world
or a ll tell you that they had a paired in their life
with a hit.
More balls in this piss,
quite simply,
and often that was the reason why they became better
is there is practice dictated to
by the facility while how good the facility
is Now.
I have a problem with that because I believe that a lot of
players become prima donnas in that space
where they think,
Well,
then it's not great.
Um,
the pictures on good the bowlers on great talk on practice
for and I think the great players don't find excuses
there.
They actually go and they find a way
to have a really good in it or really good practice,
regardless of the conditions that they,
you know,
they're confronted with again.
When we're working with young players,
I really like it.
When young players get into a
space where they really want to hit
balls well,
they really want to bowl double or they really want to take
catches.
You know,
for me,
I get excited as a coach because I've not said this guy's interested
in increasing his volume in his practice,
and he's doing it by his own
admission.
Rather than being told.
You need to do this in a practice.
When I see that young guy,
I get very excited because I know he's interested.
He's keen,
he's determined and he's not prepared to put in the yard
to become a better player.
Is that what is the environment that you as a coach,
trying to provide for the team
in order for them to have the best possible
practice?
Well,
as a coach,
we gotta be organized.
Evan,
we you know,
we've got a sale.
How much time do I have with these bunch of plays?
Maybe it's 90 minutes.
I can say What can I do in 90 minutes where everyone
feels that they walked out of the out of that
practice knowing that they're covered a lot of
the skills that they're going to be confronted with in a match.
The more organized I am is a coach,
the bed of the practice,
and for me,
we often go through the motions as coaches.
You know,
we will have a fielding session and you'll have
10 guys standing in a line behind one another,
and each guy's taking probably two or three catches in the whole
next session.
Where is what you can do is you can get creative and make sure that
you know you can really old repetition
in that training session.
So,
you know,
practicing for me in that space.
If the coach is really organized,
you can and fantastic value to Young.
There's a number of players that will come to a practice unless you've
organized an individual one,
and it must be quite a bit of it.
We might be one that arrives with a bad attitude who doesn't
feel like practicing is that your role is the coast of able to
pick it up in address it before sort of infests
the whole practice.
Yeah,
absolutely I would want to want to help that young player
understand the importance of practicing if it's
two or three plays and it becomes a bit more of a problem,
I think importantly for me,
um,
as a coach,
I need to sell to the players
the importance off practicing and how
relevant what we do.
Yeah,
in our training is to what you're going to do
in a Mexican oration.
I would be very irritated,
for example,
if a guy got out trying to pull a short delivery from
a fast Tyler and top invisible and gets
out.
But he's never practiced it in the Nets.
That shot.
And then I'm saying two more while you're playing the shot.
If you've never practiced it,
there has to be a connection between what you're doing
in a practice session on DDE what you're gonna
be doing.
You've highlighted over a number of the programs that
we've done is being a being a sentence that has stuck
out for me around.
There's not necessarily a right and a wrong.
You've been strong on that.
Is there a rot?
Is there a rot away to practice and is there a wrong way
to practice.
Well,
I think the importance around practice is Are you
Are you creating some some purpose
in what you're doing?
The only thing that I'm interested in is that there's a close
link between what you're doing in your preparation.
Do what you're doing.
New matches.
I mean,
I think you can go across the whole lot of sports
and you can watch tennis players.
You can watch golfers in the way that they practice
and how important it is to replicate
what they might be getting in a match situation.
I don't like it when young players come
into a knit situation and are prepared to make errors,
which they know is going to cost them
big time in a match situation.
Then why you doing it for it,
for a simple example is why would Why would
a young fast Tyler all nobles
in the net when he's going to get penalized
in a match situation?
It doesn't make sense to me and I think for glasses
cultures if our attention to detail is really good there,
then we are not let me on away.
Repetition repetition,
repetition volume volume
volume for me is critical as a coach
to making sure that a player is mastering
the skills that he that he requires.
We've spoken quite a bit about practicing
in a team environment.
What about individual individual practicing
with a one on one coach?
Yes,
I think that's also important for a young player
because often when you're in a team space,
you don't really get enough practice,
repetition and volume in.
So it's not sometimes to go into a one on one session
where you can actually just focus on just what you
need to do in your skills.
I do a lot of work like that as a as a coach,
I might have an hour with a young Bettman and
I have an opportunity to maybe throw 300 balls
at him,
which is an average first of 300 bowls.
That's 50 overs of betting that one guy
gets in one hour session,
so he gets a lot of work and he can improve.
I'm very quickly through that process.
I'm really a fen because the skills are quite
complicated in cricket.
To have those one on one session so
that you can grow that skill.
You running academy,
I'd be interested to know how you manage the player
and all the information that he's being given
about how to play at the various sort of places
where he gets when he gets catching.
So Arbeit school,
plus a representative side,
plus his favorite one on one coach and now he
goes to your academy.
I mean,
that's Phil.
Lots of different information.
Yeah,
I mean,
listen,
the perfect scenario is that all the coaches are lined
and giving the same mrs.
But that's not gonna happen,
is it?
And,
uh,
I get very frustrated.
And,
um,
I have sympathy for the young player when he gets
fed a lot of different pieces of information.
I,
interestingly enough often it'll just be
a different kind of language but actually meaning the same
thing.
But then then trip interpretation of what the coach is
saying is really tough for the for the young player.
So whenever I coach a young guy that I haven't seen much,
I'll always say to him,
This is my best thinking on your game,
and it's your responsibility to decide
for yourself what is relevant to you
or not.
If it's a real small guy,
like in a 9 10 and 11 year old.
My view is that a lot of the information
from all the different cultures will probably be fairly similar.
But when the kid is a bit more advanced,
different information can be interpreted in a
very different way.
So for me,
I always throw that responsibility onto the young
player.
But I do make sure that he understands from
my side this is my best thinking in terms of
what I see in your game and how do I
qualify that?
Well,
I've been involved the game a long time.
I've watched a lot of the best players in the world,
and I look at the shape of the way you're betting,
bowling or feeling,
and I'm trying to find that shape
in you that looks a bit like you.
That would work.
You've given us the advantages to having
one on one practice the 300 balls in an hour
compared to maybe a team environment.
What can the player get from being involved in
in academy?
Not necessarily yours,
but for this,
for the circumstances,
your academy,
what benefit can not give the player
well,
apart from apart from the one on one work,
he would be working and spending time with other players.
It was invested into the academy,
and I think we have a lot of joint conversations
in that space around around understanding
how you can improve your game.
So,
you know,
we always like to bring a lot of the individuals
together for a period of time and maybe have a session
around a specific skill.
And then they all get to participate jointly in
the next session,
and then they grow their skill.
Let's remember that winner when a
player invests into
a private academy,
my role is ahead of that academies to make sure
that we add value for that investment
as best that we can for that specifically for that individual.
So we always mindful off on the balance
between doing a lot of one on one word because that's
essentially what he wants.
But at the same time,
the odds,
um,
on a group session where he can get
some more generic learning.
Okay,
so if we have to just finish off this son
on practice here,
if I have to ask you to sum it up,
what does an ideal practice of a clock for
an individual player.
Quite simply,
quality and quality is around bolding.
Good habits and good behaviors.
And the 2nd 1 is quantity.
Which is how do you repeat those good behaviors
and those good qualities that you want to bring into
your practicing time and time and time again?
Yes.
We've got some great insights there into what a good practice
looks like for a team as well as for an individual
player.
You can't avoid it.
You need to do it.